---
created: 2020-02-11
last_modified: 2023-04-15
version: 1.1
tactics: Credential Access
url: https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1003/007
platforms: Linux
tags: [T1003_007, techniques, Credential_Access]
---

## OS Credential Dumping- Proc Filesystem

### Description

Adversaries may gather credentials from the proc filesystem or `/proc`. The proc filesystem is a pseudo-filesystem used as an interface to kernel data structures for Linux based systems managing virtual memory. For each process, the `/proc/<PID>/maps` file shows how memory is mapped within the process?s virtual address space. And `/proc/<PID>/mem`, exposed for debugging purposes, provides access to the process?s virtual address space.(Citation: Picus Labs Proc cump 2022)(Citation: baeldung Linux proc map 2022)

When executing with root privileges, adversaries can search these memory locations for all processes on a system that contain patterns that are indicative of credentials, such as looking for fixed strings in memory structures or cached hashes. When running without privileged access, processes can still view their own virtual memory locations. Some services or programs may save credentials in clear text inside the process?s memory.(Citation: MimiPenguin GitHub May 2017)(Citation: Polop Linux PrivEsc Gitbook)

If running as or with the permissions of a web browser, a process can search the `/maps` & `/mem` locations for common website credential patterns (that can also be used to find adjacent memory within the same structure) in which hashes or cleartext credentials may be located.

### Detection

To obtain the passwords and hashes stored in memory, processes must open a maps file in the /proc filesystem for the process being analyzed. This file is stored under the path <code>/proc/\*/maps</code>, where the <code>\*</code> directory is the unique pid of the program being interrogated for such authentication data. The AuditD monitoring tool, which ships stock in many Linux distributions, can be used to watch for hostile processes opening this file in the proc file system, alerting on the pid, process name, and arguments of such programs.

### Defenses Bypassed



### Data Sources

  - Command: Command Execution
  -  File: File Access
### Detection Rule

```query
tag: detection_rule
tag: T1003_007
```

### Rule Testing

```query
tag: atomic_test
tag: T1003_007
```
