---
created: 2020-02-05
last_modified: 2023-03-30
version: 1.2
tactics: Defense Evasion
url: https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1027/002
platforms: Linux, Windows, macOS
tags: [T1027_002, techniques, Defense_Evasion]
---

## Obfuscated Files or Information- Software Packing

### Description

Adversaries may perform software packing or virtual machine software protection to conceal their code. Software packing is a method of compressing or encrypting an executable. Packing an executable changes the file signature in an attempt to avoid signature-based detection. Most decompression techniques decompress the executable code in memory. Virtual machine software protection translates an executable's original code into a special format that only a special virtual machine can run. A virtual machine is then called to run this code.(Citation: ESET FinFisher Jan 2018) 

Utilities used to perform software packing are called packers. Example packers are MPRESS and UPX. A more comprehensive list of known packers is available, but adversaries may create their own packing techniques that do not leave the same artifacts as well-known packers to evade defenses.(Citation: Awesome Executable Packing)  

### Detection

Use file scanning to look for known software packers or artifacts of packing techniques. Packing is not a definitive indicator of malicious activity, because legitimate software may use packing techniques to reduce binary size or to protect proprietary code.

### Defenses Bypassed

Anti-virus, Heuristic detection, Signature-based detection

### Data Sources

  - File: File Metadata
### Detection Rule

```dataview
table without id
file.link AS "Name",
status AS "Status",
level AS "Level",
logsrc_product AS "Log Source Product"
FROM "Detection Rules" AND #T1027_002
```

### Rule Testing

```dataview
TABLE without id
filename AS "Name"
FROM "Testing Runbooks" AND #T1027_002
```
