---
created: 2020-01-14
last_modified: 2021-10-18
version: 1.1
tactics: Defense Evasion, Privilege Escalation
url: https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1055/008
platforms: Linux
tags: [T1055_008, techniques, Defense_Evasion,_Privilege_Escalation]
---

## Process Injection- Ptrace System Calls

### Description

Adversaries may inject malicious code into processes via ptrace (process trace) system calls in order to evade process-based defenses as well as possibly elevate privileges. Ptrace system call injection is a method of executing arbitrary code in the address space of a separate live process. 

Ptrace system call injection involves attaching to and modifying a running process. The ptrace system call enables a debugging process to observe and control another process (and each individual thread), including changing memory and register values.(Citation: PTRACE man) Ptrace system call injection is commonly performed by writing arbitrary code into a running process (ex: <code>malloc</code>) then invoking that memory with <code>PTRACE_SETREGS</code> to set the register containing the next instruction to execute. Ptrace system call injection can also be done with <code>PTRACE_POKETEXT</code>/<code>PTRACE_POKEDATA</code>, which copy data to a specific address in the target processes? memory (ex: the current address of the next instruction). (Citation: PTRACE man)(Citation: Medium Ptrace JUL 2018) 

Ptrace system call injection may not be possible targeting processes that are non-child processes and/or have higher-privileges.(Citation: BH Linux Inject) 

Running code in the context of another process may allow access to the process's memory, system/network resources, and possibly elevated privileges. Execution via ptrace system call injection may also evade detection from security products since the execution is masked under a legitimate process. 

### Detection

Monitoring for Linux specific calls such as the ptrace system call should not generate large amounts of data due to their specialized nature, and can be a very effective method to detect some of the common process injection methods.(Citation: ArtOfMemoryForensics)  (Citation: GNU Acct)  (Citation: RHEL auditd)  (Citation: Chokepoint preload rootkits) 

Analyze process behavior to determine if a process is performing actions it usually does not, such as opening network connections, reading files, or other suspicious actions that could relate to post-compromise behavior. 

### Defenses Bypassed

Anti-virus, Application control

### Data Sources

  - Process: OS API Execution
  -  Process: Process Access
  -  Process: Process Modification
### Detection Rule

```query
tag: detection_rule
tag: T1055_008
```

### Rule Testing

```query
tag: atomic_test
tag: T1055_008
```
