---
created: 2020-03-12
last_modified: 2023-04-07
version: 1.2
tactics: Discovery
url: https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1069/001
platforms: Linux, Windows, macOS
tags: [T1069_001, techniques, Discovery]
---

## Permission Groups Discovery- Local Groups

### Description

Adversaries may attempt to find local system groups and permission settings. The knowledge of local system permission groups can help adversaries determine which groups exist and which users belong to a particular group. Adversaries may use this information to determine which users have elevated permissions, such as the users found within the local administrators group.

Commands such as <code>net localgroup</code> of the [Net](https://attack.mitre.org/software/S0039) utility, <code>dscl . -list /Groups</code> on macOS, and <code>groups</code> on Linux can list local groups.

### Detection

System and network discovery techniques normally occur throughout an operation as an adversary learns the environment. Data and events should not be viewed in isolation, but as part of a chain of behavior that could lead to other activities, such as Lateral Movement, based on the information obtained.

Monitor processes and command-line arguments for actions that could be taken to gather system and network information. Remote access tools with built-in features may interact directly with the Windows API to gather information. Information may also be acquired through Windows system management tools such as [Windows Management Instrumentation](https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1047) and [PowerShell](https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1059/001).

### Defenses Bypassed



### Data Sources

  - Command: Command Execution
  -  Group: Group Enumeration
  -  Process: OS API Execution
  -  Process: Process Creation
### Detection Rule

```dataview
table without id
file.link AS "Name",
status AS "Status",
level AS "Level",
logsrc_product AS "Log Source Product"
FROM "Detection Rules" AND #T1069_001
```

### Rule Testing

```dataview
TABLE without id
filename AS "Name"
FROM "Testing Runbooks" AND #T1069_001
```
