---
created: 2020-02-21
last_modified: 2023-04-07
version: 1.2
tactics: Discovery
url: https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1069/002
platforms: Linux, Windows, macOS
tags: [T1069_002, techniques, Discovery]
---

## Permission Groups Discovery- Domain Groups

### Description

Adversaries may attempt to find domain-level groups and permission settings. The knowledge of domain-level permission groups can help adversaries determine which groups exist and which users belong to a particular group. Adversaries may use this information to determine which users have elevated permissions, such as domain administrators.

Commands such as <code>net group /domain</code> of the [Net](https://attack.mitre.org/software/S0039) utility,  <code>dscacheutil -q group</code> on macOS, and <code>ldapsearch</code> on Linux can list domain-level groups.

### Detection

System and network discovery techniques normally occur throughout an operation as an adversary learns the environment. Data and events should not be viewed in isolation, but as part of a chain of behavior that could lead to other activities, such as Lateral Movement, based on the information obtained.

Monitor processes and command-line arguments for actions that could be taken to gather system and network information. Remote access tools with built-in features may interact directly with the Windows API to gather information. Information may also be acquired through Windows system management tools such as [Windows Management Instrumentation](https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1047) and [PowerShell](https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1059/001).

### Defenses Bypassed



### Data Sources

  - Command: Command Execution
  -  Group: Group Enumeration
  -  Process: OS API Execution
  -  Process: Process Creation
### Detection Rule

```query
tag: detection_rule
tag: T1069_002
```

### Rule Testing

```query
tag: atomic_test
tag: T1069_002
```
