---
created: 2020-03-15
last_modified: 2023-09-29
version: 1.2
tactics: Command and Control
url: https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1071/001
platforms: Linux, Windows, macOS
tags: [T1071_001, techniques, Command_and_Control]
---

## Application Layer Protocol- Web Protocols

### Description

Adversaries may communicate using application layer protocols associated with web traffic to avoid detection/network filtering by blending in with existing traffic. Commands to the remote system, and often the results of those commands, will be embedded within the protocol traffic between the client and server. 

Protocols such as HTTP/S(Citation: CrowdStrike Putter Panda) and WebSocket(Citation: Brazking-Websockets) that carry web traffic may be very common in environments. HTTP/S packets have many fields and headers in which data can be concealed. An adversary may abuse these protocols to communicate with systems under their control within a victim network while also mimicking normal, expected traffic. 

### Detection

Analyze network data for uncommon data flows (e.g., a client sending significantly more data than it receives from a server). Processes utilizing the network that do not normally have network communication or have never been seen before are suspicious. Analyze packet contents to detect application layer protocols that do not follow the expected protocol standards regarding syntax, structure, or any other variable adversaries could leverage to conceal data.(Citation: University of Birmingham C2)

Monitor for web traffic to/from known-bad or suspicious domains. 

### Defenses Bypassed



### Data Sources

  - Network Traffic: Network Traffic Content
  -  Network Traffic: Network Traffic Flow
### Detection Rule

```dataview
table without id
file.link AS "Name",
status AS "Status",
level AS "Level",
logsrc_product AS "Log Source Product"
FROM "Detection Rules" AND #T1071_001
```

### Rule Testing

```dataview
TABLE without id
filename AS "Name"
FROM "atomics" AND #T1071_001
```
