---
created: 2020-03-15
last_modified: 2023-10-01
version: 1.1
tactics: Command and Control
url: https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1071/002
platforms: Linux, Windows, macOS
tags: [T1071_002, techniques, Command_and_Control]
---

## Application Layer Protocol- File Transfer Protocols

### Description

Adversaries may communicate using application layer protocols associated with transferring files to avoid detection/network filtering by blending in with existing traffic. Commands to the remote system, and often the results of those commands, will be embedded within the protocol traffic between the client and server. 

Protocols such as SMB, FTP, FTPS, and TFTP that transfer files may be very common in environments.  Packets produced from these protocols may have many fields and headers in which data can be concealed. Data could also be concealed within the transferred files. An adversary may abuse these protocols to communicate with systems under their control within a victim network while also mimicking normal, expected traffic. 

### Detection

Analyze network data for uncommon data flows (e.g., a client sending significantly more data than it receives from a server). Processes utilizing the network that do not normally have network communication or have never been seen before are suspicious. Analyze packet contents to detect application layer protocols that do not follow the expected protocol for the port that is being used.(Citation: University of Birmingham C2)

### Defenses Bypassed



### Data Sources

  - Network Traffic: Network Traffic Content
  -  Network Traffic: Network Traffic Flow
### Detection Rule

```query
tag: detection_rule
tag: T1071_002
```

### Rule Testing

```query
tag: atomic_test
tag: T1071_002
```
