---
created: 2020-02-21
last_modified: 2023-04-15
version: 1.2
tactics: Discovery
url: https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1087/002
platforms: Linux, Windows, macOS
tags: [T1087_002, techniques, Discovery]
---

## Account Discovery- Domain Account

### Description

Adversaries may attempt to get a listing of domain accounts. This information can help adversaries determine which domain accounts exist to aid in follow-on behavior such as targeting specific accounts which possess particular privileges.

Commands such as <code>net user /domain</code> and <code>net group /domain</code> of the [Net](https://attack.mitre.org/software/S0039) utility, <code>dscacheutil -q group</code>on macOS, and <code>ldapsearch</code> on Linux can list domain users and groups. [PowerShell](https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1059/001) cmdlets including <code>Get-ADUser</code> and <code>Get-ADGroupMember</code> may enumerate members of Active Directory groups.  

### Detection

System and network discovery techniques normally occur throughout an operation as an adversary learns the environment. Data and events should not be viewed in isolation, but as part of a chain of behavior that could lead to other activities, such as Lateral Movement, based on the information obtained.

Monitor processes and command-line arguments for actions that could be taken to gather system and network information. Remote access tools with built-in features may interact directly with the Windows API to gather information. Information may also be acquired through Windows system management tools such as [Windows Management Instrumentation](https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1047) and [PowerShell](https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1059/001).


### Defenses Bypassed



### Data Sources

  - Command: Command Execution
  -  Group: Group Enumeration
  -  Network Traffic: Network Traffic Content
  -  Process: OS API Execution
  -  Process: Process Creation
### Detection Rule

```dataview
table without id
file.link AS "Name",
status AS "Status",
level AS "Level",
logsrc_product AS "Log Source Product"
FROM "Detection Rules" AND #T1087_002
```

### Rule Testing

```dataview
TABLE without id
filename AS "Name"
FROM "atomics" AND #T1087_002
```
