---
created: 2020-02-18
last_modified: 2023-09-29
version: 1.2
tactics: Defense Evasion, Privilege Escalation
url: https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1134/001
platforms: Windows
tags: [T1134_001, techniques, Defense_Evasion,_Privilege_Escalation]
---

## Access Token Manipulation- Token Impersonation_Theft

### Description

Adversaries may duplicate then impersonate another user's existing token to escalate privileges and bypass access controls. For example, an adversary can duplicate an existing token using `DuplicateToken` or `DuplicateTokenEx`. The token can then be used with `ImpersonateLoggedOnUser` to allow the calling thread to impersonate a logged on user's security context, or with `SetThreadToken` to assign the impersonated token to a thread.

An adversary may perform [Token Impersonation/Theft](https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1134/001) when they have a specific, existing process they want to assign the duplicated token to. For example, this may be useful for when the target user has a non-network logon session on the system.

When an adversary would instead use a duplicated token to create a new process rather than attaching to an existing process, they can additionally [Create Process with Token](https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1134/002) using `CreateProcessWithTokenW` or `CreateProcessAsUserW`. [Token Impersonation/Theft](https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1134/001) is also distinct from [Make and Impersonate Token](https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1134/003) in that it refers to duplicating an existing token, rather than creating a new one.

### Detection

If an adversary is using a standard command-line shell, analysts can detect token manipulation by auditing command-line activity. Specifically, analysts should look for use of the <code>runas</code> command. Detailed command-line logging is not enabled by default in Windows.(Citation: Microsoft Command-line Logging)

Analysts can also monitor for use of Windows APIs such as <code>DuplicateToken(Ex)</code>, <code> ImpersonateLoggedOnUser </code>, and <code> SetThreadToken </code> and correlate activity with other suspicious behavior to reduce false positives that may be due to normal benign use by users and administrators.

### Defenses Bypassed

File system access controls, System access controls, Windows User Account Control

### Data Sources

  - Command: Command Execution
  -  Process: OS API Execution
### Detection Rule

```query
tag: detection_rule
tag: T1134_001
```

### Rule Testing

```query
tag: atomic_test
tag: T1134_001
```
