---
created: 2020-01-28
last_modified: 2023-10-16
version: 1.3
tactics: Persistence
url: https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1136/001
platforms: Containers, Linux, Network, Windows, macOS
tags: [T1136_001, techniques, Persistence]
---

## Create Account- Local Account

### Description

Adversaries may create a local account to maintain access to victim systems. Local accounts are those configured by an organization for use by users, remote support, services, or for administration on a single system or service. 

For example, with a sufficient level of access, the Windows <code>net user /add</code> command can be used to create a local account. On macOS systems the <code>dscl -create</code> command can be used to create a local account. Local accounts may also be added to network devices, often via common [Network Device CLI](https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1059/008) commands such as <code>username</code>, or to Kubernetes clusters using the `kubectl` utility.(Citation: cisco_username_cmd)(Citation: Kubernetes Service Accounts Security)

Such accounts may be used to establish secondary credentialed access that do not require persistent remote access tools to be deployed on the system.

### Detection

Monitor for processes and command-line parameters associated with local account creation, such as <code>net user /add</code> , <code>useradd</code> , and <code>dscl -create</code> . Collect data on account creation within a network. Event ID 4720 is generated when a user account is created on a Windows system. (Citation: Microsoft User Creation Event) Perform regular audits of local system accounts to detect suspicious accounts that may have been created by an adversary. For network infrastructure devices, collect AAA logging to monitor for account creations.

### Defenses Bypassed



### Data Sources

  - Command: Command Execution
  -  Process: Process Creation
  -  User Account: User Account Creation
### Detection Rule

```query
tag: detection_rule
tag: T1136_001
```

### Rule Testing

```query
tag: atomic_test
tag: T1136_001
```
