---
created: 2019-11-07
last_modified: 2021-08-16
version: 1.1
tactics: Persistence
url: https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1137/002
platforms: Office 365, Windows
tags: [T1137_002, techniques, Persistence]
---

## Office Application Startup- Office Test

### Description

Adversaries may abuse the Microsoft Office "Office Test" Registry key to obtain persistence on a compromised system. An Office Test Registry location exists that allows a user to specify an arbitrary DLL that will be executed every time an Office application is started. This Registry key is thought to be used by Microsoft to load DLLs for testing and debugging purposes while developing Office applications. This Registry key is not created by default during an Office installation.(Citation: Hexacorn Office Test)(Citation: Palo Alto Office Test Sofacy)

There exist user and global Registry keys for the Office Test feature:

* <code>HKEY_CURRENT_USER\Software\Microsoft\Office test\Special\Perf</code>
* <code>HKEY_LOCAL_MACHINE\Software\Microsoft\Office test\Special\Perf</code>

Adversaries may add this Registry key and specify a malicious DLL that will be executed whenever an Office application, such as Word or Excel, is started.

### Detection

Monitor for the creation of the Office Test Registry key. Many Office-related persistence mechanisms require changes to the Registry and for binaries, files, or scripts to be written to disk or existing files modified to include malicious scripts. Collect events related to Registry key creation and modification for keys that could be used for Office-based persistence. Since v13.52, Autoruns can detect tasks set up using the Office Test Registry key.(Citation: Palo Alto Office Test Sofacy)

Consider monitoring Office processes for anomalous DLL loads.

### Defenses Bypassed



### Data Sources

  - Command: Command Execution
  -  File: File Creation
  -  File: File Modification
  -  Module: Module Load
  -  Process: Process Creation
  -  Windows Registry: Windows Registry Key Creation
  -  Windows Registry: Windows Registry Key Modification
### Detection Rule

```dataview
table without id
file.link AS "Name",
status AS "Status",
level AS "Level",
logsrc_product AS "Log Source Product"
FROM "Detection Rules" AND #T1137_002
```

### Rule Testing

```dataview
TABLE without id
filename AS "Name"
FROM "Testing Runbooks" AND #T1137_002
```
