---
created: 2020-02-05
last_modified: 2022-09-22
version: 1.1
tactics: Defense Evasion
url: https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1553/002
platforms: Windows, macOS
tags: [T1553_002, techniques, Defense_Evasion]
---

## Subvert Trust Controls- Code Signing

### Description

Adversaries may create, acquire, or steal code signing materials to sign their malware or tools. Code signing provides a level of authenticity on a binary from the developer and a guarantee that the binary has not been tampered with. (Citation: Wikipedia Code Signing) The certificates used during an operation may be created, acquired, or stolen by the adversary. (Citation: Securelist Digital Certificates) (Citation: Symantec Digital Certificates) Unlike [Invalid Code Signature](https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1036/001), this activity will result in a valid signature.

Code signing to verify software on first run can be used on modern Windows and macOS systems. It is not used on Linux due to the decentralized nature of the platform. (Citation: Wikipedia Code Signing)(Citation: EclecticLightChecksonEXECodeSigning)

Code signing certificates may be used to bypass security policies that require signed code to execute on a system. 

### Detection

Collect and analyze signing certificate metadata on software that executes within the environment to look for unusual certificate characteristics and outliers.

### Defenses Bypassed

Windows User Account Control

### Data Sources

  - File: File Metadata
### Detection Rule

```dataview
table without id
file.link AS "Name",
status AS "Status",
level AS "Level",
logsrc_product AS "Log Source Product"
FROM "Detection Rules" AND #T1553_002
```

### Rule Testing

```dataview
TABLE without id
filename AS "Name"
FROM "atomics" AND #T1553_002
```
