---
created: 2020-02-25
last_modified: 2023-08-14
version: 1.1
tactics: Lateral Movement
url: https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1563/002
platforms: Windows
tags: [T1563_002, techniques, Lateral_Movement]
---

## Remote Service Session Hijacking- RDP Hijacking

### Description

Adversaries may hijack a legitimate user?s remote desktop session to move laterally within an environment. Remote desktop is a common feature in operating systems. It allows a user to log into an interactive session with a system desktop graphical user interface on a remote system. Microsoft refers to its implementation of the Remote Desktop Protocol (RDP) as Remote Desktop Services (RDS).(Citation: TechNet Remote Desktop Services)

Adversaries may perform RDP session hijacking which involves stealing a legitimate user's remote session. Typically, a user is notified when someone else is trying to steal their session. With System permissions and using Terminal Services Console, `c:\windows\system32\tscon.exe [session number to be stolen]`, an adversary can hijack a session without the need for credentials or prompts to the user.(Citation: RDP Hijacking Korznikov) This can be done remotely or locally and with active or disconnected sessions.(Citation: RDP Hijacking Medium) It can also lead to [Remote System Discovery](https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1018) and Privilege Escalation by stealing a Domain Admin or higher privileged account session. All of this can be done by using native Windows commands, but it has also been added as a feature in red teaming tools.(Citation: Kali Redsnarf)

### Detection

Consider monitoring processes for `tscon.exe` usage and monitor service creation that uses `cmd.exe /k` or `cmd.exe /c` in its arguments to detect RDP session hijacking.

Use of RDP may be legitimate, depending on the network environment and how it is used. Other factors, such as access patterns and activity that occurs after a remote login, may indicate suspicious or malicious behavior with RDP.

### Defenses Bypassed



### Data Sources

  - Command: Command Execution
  -  Logon Session: Logon Session Creation
  -  Network Traffic: Network Traffic Content
  -  Network Traffic: Network Traffic Flow
  -  Process: Process Creation
### Detection Rule

```query
tag: detection_rule
tag: T1563_002
```

### Rule Testing

```query
tag: atomic_test
tag: T1563_002
```
