---
created: 2020-03-13
last_modified: 2023-03-30
version: 2.0
tactics: Defense Evasion, Persistence, Privilege Escalation
url: https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1574/002
platforms: Windows
tags: [T1574_002, techniques, Defense_Evasion,_Persistence,_Privilege_Escalation]
---

## Hijack Execution Flow- DLL Side-Loading

### Description

Adversaries may execute their own malicious payloads by side-loading DLLs. Similar to [DLL Search Order Hijacking](https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1574/001), side-loading involves hijacking which DLL a program loads. But rather than just planting the DLL within the search order of a program then waiting for the victim application to be invoked, adversaries may directly side-load their payloads by planting then invoking a legitimate application that executes their payload(s).

Side-loading takes advantage of the DLL search order used by the loader by positioning both the victim application and malicious payload(s) alongside each other. Adversaries likely use side-loading as a means of masking actions they perform under a legitimate, trusted, and potentially elevated system or software process. Benign executables used to side-load payloads may not be flagged during delivery and/or execution. Adversary payloads may also be encrypted/packed or otherwise obfuscated until loaded into the memory of the trusted process.(Citation: FireEye DLL Side-Loading)

### Detection

Monitor processes for unusual activity (e.g., a process that does not use the network begins to do so) as well as the introduction of new files/programs. Track DLL metadata, such as a hash, and compare DLLs that are loaded at process execution time against previous executions to detect differences that do not correlate with patching or updates.

### Defenses Bypassed

Anti-virus, Application Control

### Data Sources

  - File: File Creation
  -  File: File Modification
  -  Module: Module Load
  -  Process: Process Creation
### Detection Rule

```query
tag: detection_rule
tag: T1574_002
```

### Rule Testing

```query
tag: atomic_test
tag: T1574_002
```
