---
created: 2020-10-01
last_modified: 2023-04-12
version: 1.2
tactics: Resource Development
url: https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1583/004
platforms: PRE
tags: [T1583_004, techniques, Resource_Development]
---

## Acquire Infrastructure- Server

### Description

Adversaries may buy, lease, or rent physical serversÿthat can be used during targeting. Use of servers allows an adversary to stage, launch, and execute an operation. During post-compromise activity, adversaries may utilize servers for various tasks, including for Command and Control. Adversaries may use web servers to support support watering hole operations, as in [Drive-by Compromise](https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1189), or email servers to support [Phishing](https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1566) operations. Instead of compromising a third-party [Server](https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1584/004) or renting a [Virtual Private Server](https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1583/003), adversaries may opt to configure and run their own servers in support of operations.

Adversaries may only need a lightweight setup if most of their activities will take place using online infrastructure. Or, they may need to build extensive infrastructure if they want to test, communicate, and control other aspects of their activities on their own systems.(Citation: NYTStuxnet)

### Detection

Once adversaries have provisioned a server (ex: for use as a command and control server), internet scans may reveal servers that adversaries have acquired. Consider looking for identifiable patterns such as services listening, certificates in use, SSL/TLS negotiation features, or other response artifacts associated with adversary C2 software.(Citation: ThreatConnect Infrastructure Dec 2020)(Citation: Mandiant SCANdalous Jul 2020)(Citation: Koczwara Beacon Hunting Sep 2021)

Much of this activity will take place outside the visibility of the target organization, making detection of this behavior difficult. Detection efforts may be focused on related stages of the adversary lifecycle, such as during Command and Control.

### Defenses Bypassed



### Data Sources

  - Internet Scan: Response Content
  -  Internet Scan: Response Metadata
### Detection Rule

```query
tag: detection_rule
tag: T1583_004
```

### Rule Testing

```query
tag: atomic_test
tag: T1583_004
```
